+++
aliases = ["/call-for-expression-of-interest-univ-rome-tor-vergata/"]
categories = ["news", "open-positions"]
date = "2018-06-08 17:23:15"
slug = "call-for-expression-of-interest-univ-rome-tor-vergata"
tags = []
title = "Call for expression of interest - Univ. Rome Tor Vergata"
+++

**\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*** **CALL FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST**
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

The Department of Mathematics at the University of Rome Tor Vergata
invites expressions of interest for Senior (Tenure-Track) Assistant
Professor ('RTD-B') and Tenured Associate Professor positions in any
area of Pure and Applied Mathematics.

**Who we are:**

Our Department has been consistently ranked in top positions within
Italy and Europe in Research Assessment Exercises held over the last
decade; it is the only Italian institution ranking in the top 100
worldwide for Mathematics according to the ARWU ranking of 2017.
Moreover, the Department has been recently ranked first in Italy and
hence financed by the Italian Ministry of Education, University and
Research (MIUR) under the program "Departments of Excellence" for the
2018-2022 period. More information about the Department and this program
can be found at

[https://www.mat.uniroma2.it/](https://www.mat.uniroma2.it/)

see also [https://www.mat.uniroma2.it/Progetto/](https://www.mat.uniroma2.it/Progetto/)

**What we offer:**

- **Associate Professor** is a tenured position. Applicants should have
an established track-record of publications in top international
journals and evidence of leadership and recognition in the international
academic community, including grant applications and project management.
Standards of excellence in teaching are also expected. The initial gross
salary of an Associate Professor is around 50k Euros per year. The net
amount after taxes depends on the total personal income, the composition
of the family and other parameters. To apply for an associate
professorship in Italy, the candidates must hold the "Abilitazione
Scientifica Nazionale" (Italian National Habilitation) as Associate
Professor, or must have been declared eligible by the Italian Ministery
of University and Research (MIUR), or must be currently employed in an
equivalent position in Italy or in a foreign Department.

- **Senior (Tenure-Track) Assistant Professor (RTD-B)** is for three
years. Subject to evaluation, the position will be converted in a
tenured Associate Professorship. Applicants for this position must have
at least three years of experience after PhD completion, and an already
established research record. The initial gross salary is around 38k
Euros per year

A four-year tax exemption on 90% of the salary is available according to
the Italian tax law for those candidates who have been residing outside
Italy for 2 years or more. All positions will start not earlier than
2019. Moreover, the MIUR Excellence Grant will provide special funds to
attract PhD students and PostDocs to join the Department and host large
scientific events as well as other activities such as PhD courses,
seminars and workshops.

**Procedure:**

Applicants should express their interest by sending an email
to [progetto@mat.uniroma2.it](mailto:progetto@mat.uniroma2.it), including a Curriculum Vitae and a list
of publications. The subject of the email should be Associate-surname or
RTDB-surname. Selected candidates could be invited for a seminar. There
are no restrictions regarding the nationality of the applicants.

Please note that this is a call for interest, not a job vacancy
announcement; i.e., this call is only a preliminary stage aimed to
collect expressions of interest, and it is not a formal application for
positions. On the basis of the collected EoIs, the Department will
decide whether or not to open a position in specific subdisciplines.
Academic positions in Italy can only be awarded through a public
competition or direct appointment. The Department will contact the
applicants to inform them about the opening of the formal positions and
the required documentation.

For additional information, please contact us
at: [progetto@mat.uniroma2.it](mailto:progetto@mat.uniroma2.it)


